Futuristic sliders (and knobs maybe)
    - futuretech: "@FabrizioMazzoni: I've heard that taps are ignored, and large directional swipes (think iPhone's "Slide to Unlock") are the safe way to design for touch-screen controls in the cockpit."

stable diffusion art assets?
DAW???

if a knob is cool we will make it

last human alive escaping from earth?

shatner - 
“My trip to space was supposed to be a celebration; instead, it felt like a funeral,” 
I love the mystery of the universe. 
I love all the questions that have come to us over thousands of years of exploration and hypotheses 
… but when I looked in the opposite direction, into space, there was no mystery, no majestic awe to behold … all I saw was death"

Levers/Cockpit UX - 
"During World War II, bomber aircraft returning from long overnight raids were inexplicably raising their landing gear just before landing, resulting in many deaths. 
The last action before landing was for the pilots to move the flap lever. 
However, the flap lever was shaped exactly the same as the landing gear lever and was located next to each other. 
Investigations into these accidents found that, in their exhausted state, the pilots were erroneously moving the landing gear, instead of the flaps.
To prevent this from happening, the landing gear lever was topped with a small wheel to feel like a wheel and the flap lever was fitted with a small flap so that it felt like a flap. 
Almost overnight, accidents of this nature stopped, and this design philosophy continues in airliners today."


Engine Fire - 
"However, the most important thing to do in this scenario is to ensure that we are indeed shutting down the engine with the fire and not the remaining good engine. 
To help us identify the correct engine, the fire handle which we need to pull illuminates red.
The action of pulling the fire handle isolates the engine from a number of aircraft systems including the fuel, hydraulics, electrical generators, engine anti-ice, bleed air and thrust reversers. 
It also arms the fire extinguishers, ready to be discharged into the engine by turning the handle to either side."

what could go wrong?
    - if awake, human meltdown
    - critical hull failure (overpressure, impact)
    - power failure
    - biorhythm desync (whatever that means)

a) you can only use autopilot for a limited amount of systems at a time
b) random autopilot systems fail
c) autopilot will occasionally glitch/give bad info and cause a bad reaction. up to you to disengage AP and fix

desert bus? 

goal: reach the destination